Welcome to calculus.
I'm a Professor Grist.
We're going to start a course on calculus in a single variable.
Welcome to calculus.
I'm a Professor Greist.
I'm Professor Ghrist and for the next 13 weeks I'll be your calculus professor.
Calculus is a wonderful subject.
It's one of the loftiest achievements of human thought that's been developing for thousands of years.
Whether you're at the beginning of your studies, or whether you're at the beginning of your understanding, my course will give you a new experience.
This course is built on the main objects of calculus, functions, limits, derivatives, integrals, both continuous and discreet.
You'll learn how to compute with these objects, but you'll also learn what they mean.
And how they are useful in the engineering, biology, sociology, and mechanics.
Are you ready?
Let's go!
You might be wondering, what do you need in order to be successful in this course?
First, what you do not need in this course is the following.
Well, you don't need a big calculus book.
You don't need a great computer.
They don't need money.
This course is free.
But there's only one big thing.
It's time.
Mathematics is difficult and it takes time to work through the homework assignments to understand what you're doing.
This is a hard course and you're going to need time and perseverance to get it all done.
Before we get started, I'm going to talk about something that is a premise.
It's assumed that you know the basics, such as algebra.
We have to know a lot about how to treat the index.
We'll also talk about factorization of polynomials.
Sometimes we'll be doing some of the basic algebra off-screen and it's going to be up to you to fill those steps in.
You're going to have some background in basic geometry.
Knowing about things like curves, circles, volumes of basic shapes.
We also need to study trigonometry.
We'll be reviewing things like sine, cosine, tangent, but you will need to be a little bit more familiar with the content pre-calculus.
You also need to know about the exponential function, e to the x, and the natural logarithm, l n of x.
We'll review this a little bit, but you're going to want to make sure that it's not your first time seeing that.
And even though this is a calculus course, it's not your first calculus course.
We're going to assume that you've seen some of the basics of differential integrals for polynomials and exponential functions before in this course.
You need to know, or at least have seen, a definition of a derivative.
It's enough from the slope point of view.
And it would be helpful if you know it as a definition of an integral.
This is from the perspective of the area under the curve.
Now we're going to go through all of this material again and make your understanding deeper and clearer.
But if somebody says this is the first time you've ever seen this, then this might not be the course for you.
Let's continue our overview of this course.
What you'll be studying in the last 13 weeks.
The course is broken into five chapters.
The first chapter is on functions and we start with a simple function, e to the x.
So let's reconsider functions in terms of series.
That's a Taylor series, to be exact.
We'll learn a new asymptotic language for understanding growth.
And then chapter two, by rethinking the rate of change and the notion of differentiation, we're going to advance our understanding of asymptotic language and its intuition.
In chapter three, we're going to start to fall into the notion of an anti-derivitive.
It's an integral.
Motivated by the application of differential equations we're going to construct both indefinite and definite integrals.
In chapter four, we're going to use what we've learned about derivatives and integrals to think about applications in physics, engineering and biology.
Finally, in chapter five we'll revisit everything that we've done in this course and reconstruct calculus in a discrete setting.
A calculus of a series.
So the next step is to take the diagnostic exam and see if you remember all of those prerequisites.
And let's start Lecture 1.
Watch the lecture and then go to the homework assignments.
There are two challenges in one lecture.
There's a set of basic problems that, at first, if you want to go deeper, there's a challenge problem that is optional.
Now, when you get to the homework, you may or may not encounter some difficulty.
And in order to do that, I have some reference materials.
You can first referred to Penn Calc Wiki.
You can use it textbooks in this course.
But even better, you can go to the discussion forums.
Come with someone else.
After assignment is over, we move on to the next lecture and repeat.
There's a quiz at the end of a chapter.
And so this continues on and on.
You can see the schedule on the website for the course.
Eventually, when we're done with all five chapters, we'll get to the final exam and if you pass it, it'll be done.
And it's not easy to get to the end of this course.
It's a difficult subject and it's the only way to learn to work a lot.
You have to work hard and persevere to get to the end.
But I am confident that together we can make it.
This period, I'm very honored to be your calculus professor.
Hopefully, you've chosen the course.
I want you to make it to the end.
The next step is to take a diagnostic test.
And make sure that this course is the right place for you.
Then we start with lesson one, and we're going to keep lesson after lesson one.
Don't skip around a lot.
This course has a flow.
Calculography is a kind of embarrassment in the head.
Large themes, conflicts, and achievement of the achievements that come to the end.
I want you to see that story.
I want you to live that story.
This course will be a long, difficult journey.
But if you work hard, you'll make it to the end and be proud of it.
I think you can be a masterpiece of calculus.
